and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show i'm your host sam
dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't yet be sure to
subscribe to our weekly email where we
share actual marketing marketing tips
useful podcasts free guides and
resources you can check that out today
over at
businessgrowth.email and with that my
guest today is ethan parker ethan is the
vp of revenue over at ulti sales he's
also head of outbound squad a program
for individual sellers looking to get
their phd in sales very warm welcome to
the show ethan how are you doing
i'm doing well thanks for having me sam
how are you
yeah oh good on this side man looking
forward to this it's going to be a juicy
conversation we'll be chatting all about
how you should approach uh inbound lead
versus an outbound ice cold
not ready for your cool prospect so it
should
should be a good one to unpack should
hopefully share some some nice
actionable tips for everyone that's
tuning in so
i guess let's let's throw you under
under a bus as i do with most of my
guests on the first question
should we do be focusing on inbound
should we be focusing on outbound should
we be doing both what's your thoughts
ethan
yeah i i think that the the best
approaches is always you know do both um
so
i think there's some important
distinctions to make
on you know what's considered outbound
what's considered inbound and and really
like the buckets in between right
um so you know it depends on the size of
the organization as far as how they
might classify that but you know having
a inbound engine running that is
generating leads for you i would
consider an inbound lead folks that say
had like some more information or i'd
like a demo or
contact me i'd like to hear more about
this
that would be a hot inbound lead
and then we're going to have you know
probably some content marketing going
out there where we're providing some
value that could be you know i used to
own a few gyms if that could be a video
about how to proper workout that could
be a video on how to get in shape for
summer maybe you're giving away a 30-day
guide of this
the people that download that they're
not necessarily interested in in your
business they were interested in the
content piece right so that would kind
of be in a bucket in between i'd like to
call those warm outbound and that they
do have some awareness we provided some
value but they didn't necessarily say
hey i'm interested in your business
and then we have you know the the option
of the spectrum totally cold outbound in
that you know they haven't expressed any
interest there's no intent signals and
and they just look like a good fit for
us and the short answer is
um
if the price point of your business
makes sense you should 100
be doing all the above
if you have a very highly transactional
sale and it's very low cost
the debate of whether outbound makes
sense or not would come into play and
that would just kind of be a
case-by-case situation
yep yep and it's it's one of those
tricky debates right because there's
plenty of businesses that rely on
outback on inbound sorry so they might
be doing kind of paid advertising they
might be providing free content like you
mentioned you might be doing a mix of
things like social ads google ads
social media organic stuff driving that
inbound building that demand gen
platform and then perhaps their sales
team are just purely working off leads
to come direct and then likewise they
might be putting out content getting
what we call marketing qualified leads
if people are putting out like free
guides or video guides where people put
their name and email and then those lead
a lot a lot more nurturing to them
become a warmer prospect to then put
through your sales funnel to leads and
likewise on the flip side like we're
just doing ice cold calling generating
prospects on that way and booking
initial meetings and putting them
through the sales process there so
i guess the best way to
to take this
firstly is
maybe we can share some best practices
around
kind of warm elites whether we want to
talk about kind of perhaps someone
that's downloaded a piece of content and
how we should approach that and then we
could talk about kind of real hot leads
where people actually raising their hand
look i want to speak to sales i want to
have a consultation here and now
and what what perhaps the differences
are and some best practices that you've
utilized when you run a business and now
ethan that you can share with our
listeners and watches
yeah great question um so let's let's
tackle the mql piece first so mql you
know we're all in agreeance here it's
going to be someone that has you know
expressed some sort of intent engage
with some content you provided
usually a value-based content a webinar
white paper download case study
something of that nature
so
these people
oftentimes what businesses typically do
is they'll they'll put that in i mean
because marketing is like oh we have all
these great leads and sales is like no
your leads are right
this never-ending battle
and i was just in a meeting like this
yesterday with marketing and the sales
leaders and marketing is like no all the
leads we send you are going to be good
they've gone through our filtration they
meet our icp we want you to call all of
them and sales is like well hold up a
minute i don't want to be on meetings
with you know people that don't make
sense
um so let's assume these are all folks
that make sense for you we're going to
reach out the mistake that gets made
is you know you have you have a sales
rep that reached out and says something
like you know hey sam it's ethan parker
over at
abc company i was giving you a call
because you downloaded our white paper
on the set and the other and i was
hoping to see if you might be open to
speaking sometime next week about log
management right
um and and they're like what and they
may not even remember the white paper
they downloaded because it probably
wasn't about your company and the thing
that you do it was probably related in
some way
um so for those folks mqls the scripting
that works really well that converts
well is going to be very similar to what
you might say in an outbound motion
so
for example at altis sales we we do this
for clients we handle their mqls as well
as you know generate outbound interest
for
the folks that follow the mql bucket we
use almost the same script there's a few
questions at the end they're a little
bit different that are more a little bit
more like qualifying questions but okay
the top of the script is very similar so
it would be a permission based opener
and then say hey
great sam well appreciate your time the
reason why i'm giving you a call is
because we're hosting some brief
personalized screen shares on how
companies like nike and cisco have been
increasing their developer happiness
blah blah blah we're going to risk out a
couple of priorities a couple outcomes
that they're working on and i'm saying i
just have two quick questions see if
this is relevant for you and then i'll
ask them a couple questions that will
you know bleed into more what we're
talking about as well as qualify them a
bit and see where they're at and make
sure it makes sense and then i'll say
hey man well based on what you're
telling me today and what you're trying
to do i think that we might be able to
be able to help you out here you know
would you be open to speak with me
sometime next week when i'm not totally
calling you out of the blue here so it's
it's a very similar interaction as a as
outbound lead because the only
difference is they probably
i say it's about 50 50 they at least
know the name of your company instead of
it being like totally cold that's about
the only difference though
yeah yeah i get that so i think that's a
common misconception is that when you
put out a webinar when you put out some
kind of educational content whether it's
an ebook webinar podcast guide whatever
it is to get that hook usually a name
and an email in return for the the data
i think a lot of companies approach it
like you say that is a warm lead it is
someone that speaks to sales and
marketing might pass it off to sales and
think like here you go guys there's 100
hot leads let's uh let's get some sales
on the on the board and in in reality
like you say you're calling these leads
and they may never never remember they
downloaded the piece of content they
might not even remember your brand name
so
should we mention ethan that hey you
downloaded xyz or should that not even
be discussed should you just jump
straight into look this uh
but you said a permission based open
that might be like this is a sales call
can i get 27 seconds to explain what i'm
calling or whatever that opener is do
you need to mention the guide or
whatever they downloaded
i
don't
um
unless it's a very specific situation
and for example if it was a webinar that
was very much about what we do and you
have tracking to see they stayed for the
whole thing so not just registered not
came in and bounced but they stayed for
the whole thing
um there's some some crazy software out
there that has even in more in-depth
tracking than that so depending on what
you have available there that's about
the only situation where i would bring
it up if it was a white paper download
or anything of that
i'm not really going to mention it i've
seen on average a bigger push back like
it just distracts them because they may
not even remember the download they may
not even remember exactly what the brand
was and so you calling and saying hey
i'm giving you a call because you did
this like where do you take that call
from there if you try to transition into
more of a general script to provide
value it's kind of like a weird
transition and they're hung up on this
wait what what did that download why are
you calling me versus just hitting them
with the permission based opener hey
damn it's ethan parker i know i probably
caught you in the middle of something
you have a minute you know um
that's we're talking about what we want
to talk about versus
inserting this variable that
is it's very much a roll the dice
whether they really remember that
whether it was super valuable or not
you know all sorts of things come into
play there
so i don't i don't like mentioning it no
yeah and uh on that note ethan are there
any other super no-nos that you should
not do
with these marketing qualified leads any
things to definitely avoid when you are
making those initial calls to them
yeah i i think we're we're beating
around the bush on some of the some of
the things that i'm about to say but we
shouldn't assume that they're interested
in a meeting um okay so
the no-no's are
this doesn't change the fact that we're
not gonna pitch hopefully everyone
listening this is um in the vein of on a
cold call we don't pitch right it's
talking about what the prospect cares
about generating some curiosity and
booking a meeting having a conversation
the the principle is the same with these
mqls it does not change we need to not
assume they want to chat to sales we
need to assume they probably don't know
who we are
they might remember the name
but we need to talk about what they care
about so big no knows there is is trying
to go straight for that meeting and hey
giving you a call because you downloaded
this just wanted to see if you might be
willing to speak with our sales team
sometime next week like that's a big no
no
um
same on email i think people do this
more via email than they do on the phone
they might mention that download and
then your cta is something like hey yo
are you available next tuesday i think
that's a no-no as well we need to we
need to show them what value they're
going to get out of that meeting why
it's worth their time so hey would you
be interested to see how some other
folks let's say we're calling nike would
you other would you be um you know
interested to see how some other folks
like adidas have recently like 3x their
product development or you know product
release timeline or whatever it might be
depending on what you're selling right
we still need to show some value and so
don't don't just go in for the meeting
yep yep so some kind of value
proposition that they can
spark i guess you can spark interest
with like you say if it is a some kind
of slideshow or video that you're
sharing or useful piece of content to
keep them hooked um we'll dive back into
that in a sec just want to throw you off
a bit ethan so we're talking about
calling these these prospects i know a
heck of a lot of
let's say larger scale maybe software as
a service companies not necessarily but
a lot of software companies do this
they'll get a whole bunch of these
marketing qualified leads they've
downloaded some kind of information
content and then they won't always ship
them off to sales to cool or perhaps
they'll give some to sales perhaps some
of them will nurture them via email for
a while
until they're up to a point of
raising their hand for a demo or raising
a hand saying we're ready to speak to
sales what's your opinion on the best
way to tackle these do you think there
is a right way do you think it is the
job of the sales team to just call them
and try and warm them up and see if any
of them are a good fit for the next
stage of the sales process
yeah i think this again would the
variable here would be
like what's the vet what's the acv of
what we're selling if yep if this is an
average contract value of 100k plus then
100 as you go to the sales team
if it's a 10k per year deal then
i as a seller wouldn't want to be
spending my time i would rather
go after cold like one icps that i know
are going to be those larger deals that
are going to be worth that time spent
and let marketing work the mqls to
generate like a little bit higher
scoring usually that's what the
relationship looks like that generally
marketing is going to have some type of
lead scoring and they nurture them as
you mentioned with some more emails some
more content some more value to get them
up to a certain point and then pass off
to sales whether that's the right or
wrong way
um i don't know that i can answer that
sam but what what i do believe is if if
the value is high ticket enough then i
think it makes sense to have you know
shift that over to your sellers to let
them work those leads and i think that
there's no more powerful way in the
world than picking up the phone and
calling someone to to generate you know
a conversation to see if this makes
sense because that that just nips all
that in the butt if we can have one
five-minute conversation we just
accelerate this timeline so fast or dq
you and we'll stop bugging you
yeah i think we're saying makes sense i
mean there's no
point in wasting your company's time
your seller's time if they are quite low
average order value deals right and
you're you're perhaps putting people
through this qualify qualification
process and perhaps it can be automated
because your software is only a few
hundred dollars a month so it doesn't
it doesn't add up to do all this this
work when you could just automate it
right likewise like you said if you've
got a higher ticket order value 10k 20k
100k plus then this this makes a lot
more sense so yeah i think you laid
we're laying down quite a nice framework
on how to approach these type of leads
and you're mentioning kind of generic
generating curiosity perhaps asking a
couple qualification questions
showing what the value prop might be
what they actually get out of it and and
then it's just the next step to see if
they're open to it and then like booking
an initial
meeting or whatever that next step is
yeah um
we can drill in on the because the the
part people struggle with is
you know maybe they have a really good
opener and
it gets people interested but then they
don't know where to take the call next
or the questions
are kind of uh you know shitty for lack
of benefits what happens next after that
pitch sure so the kind of the kind of
general framework of if you're whether
it's mqr cold outbound of after we kind
of make our initial statement which
would be something like hey we're
showing how other folks like this person
and that person are doing x y z and i
just have two quick questions see if
that's relevant for you and they say
sure what you got
and then i would i'm going to ask
a
i'm going to try to like understand
where they are
in the journey to excellence because
that's really what we should be selling
on the first call that's what we should
be doing in discovery it should be
you know discovery and gaining some
information and we should be showing hey
this is what world-class orgs are doing
and this is what their journey to
excellence look like and we need to
understand where they're at and by the
end of that call hopefully they
understand how we help them leapfrog to
the end of that process but
on the cold call it's very similar
so we're going to make a context
statement and then ask a how base
question first
so that would be something like
let's pretend that we're
i'll just go with a reference from one
of my past companies i sold a martech
tool to insurance works and the problem
it was solving was that most of these
really massive insurance orgs they have
agents and brokers that are very spread
out
and they
are like doing really old-fashioned
things for marketing like they go onto a
portal and download a pdf that's like
the same thing everyone they get it
printed and it's flyers or they have
this like weird email newspaper ad like
they do really old fashioned stuff
because they have such strict compliance
and branding rules so they can't they're
afraid to let their agents like modify
things too much
so what our product did was bridge that
gap it allows the it's a digital form of
that where you know the corporate office
can lock down things let them change the
things that are allowed et cetera so a
question i might ask after that opener
would be
hey well thanks sam typically what what
other vps of marketing and places like
hub international and alira what they're
telling me is
um they really will want their agents
and brokers to like do more to be like
the local marketing arm in their areas
but
they typically don't have a whole lot of
resources for them to do many digital
advertisements most of the resources are
limited to
flyers direct mailers newspaper ads
i'm curious is that what you guys have
going on or do you have something more
advanced right so i'm gonna i'm gonna
paint the pictures to let them know i
really understand their world and what's
going on and then i'll ask a question
and you'll get a much better answer that
question now at that context and i'm not
a fan of open-ended questions like i
actually think that's like the biggest
load of horse that people throw
around in sales like
i want to be very strategic with my
questions around a specific thing so
it's a very specific question and then
you'll do that two times
and then you'll simply back up off and
like hey sam based on what you're
telling me here i think we might be able
to help you with some of these things
that you're working on
would you be open to unpacking this will
be sometime next week when i'm not like
totally calling you out of the blue here
at any point i'm not going to mention
the company i don't even say the company
in my opener i just use my first and
last name but
that's the general framework
i like that yeah so you're you're going
by
common problems that you see when you
talk to prospects being very specific
in i guess what some of your best
customers have come to you with the
problems that you've helped them
overcome and seeing if any of that
resonates with this potential customer
and if if it does then pushing for the
next step and i suppose if they
push back and say look there's something
we've got covered or completely
irrelevant or whatever that may be then
you disregard the lead or is there a few
other things we need to consider first
yeah we're we're never going to take the
first no so we're always going to i
don't like the term
handle objections i'm not a fan uh what
jason and i in outbound squad talk about
is deflating those objections so if you
imagine a hot air you know you're
blowing a balloon up the more we give
rebuttals and try to handle the
objection the bigger and bigger that
balloon gets and the more pressure there
is the more uncomfortable it is what we
want to do is deflate it we want to take
that pressure out of the room and the
way we do that is framework called evo
so it's empathize validate make an offer
so you say hey we're all covered this is
really kind of irrelevant for me hey got
it sam uh sounds like you're all set
that's validation i can imagine how you
know talking to a salesperson about
something like this whenever you kind of
get everything all taken care of might
feel like a waste of time that's empathy
and then i say hey would it be a
terrible idea just because i have heard
you know some things like that
from previous uh folks i spoke to could
i just ask you two quick questions and
then i'll leave you alone if this
doesn't make sense
um right so empathize validate make an
offer
and most of the time they're going to
say sure
and then i can poke holes in it because
it depends on
it depends on the product right but in
my scenario i definitely heard that but
that usually is going to mean hey
they're using seismic they're using like
i pretty much know what that meant they
were using and i know the limitations
there and i know they're still uh
this is not a rip and replace this is in
combination too and i know the value so
then i can ask a couple other questions
so hey great typically when folks say
that it's because they're using xyz and
again i'm showing my acumen of knowing
that like damn this dude knows what's
going on and then and it's because i've
had these conversations with customers
and then i'm gonna undo the same thing i
did in the previous question so
typically when that's the scenario these
things happen are you ever running into
that or you're all set on that and if
you know if we go through a couple of
those rounds of them saying that we got
this covered and it's not a problem then
cool you know we'll appreciate your time
and let it go
yeah that's that's a solid framework it
sounds like you're just trying to dig a
bit deeper using your experience in the
in the field in the sector to understand
if if it is a genuine objection or if it
is just a blanket no because obviously
you're calling this person from out of
the blue
they might not really want to talk to
you but once i suppose you get across
that industry expertise
you appreciate that they're they're
taking the time to chat to you and you
break that down a bit it kind of i
suppose it takes them off guard a bit
more
yeah well because they're expecting a
pitch and like when you tell me it's
just like when someone responds to an
email i say not interested and i'm like
i'm not interested in what because i
haven't pissed you anything
you just you just don't want a sales
person contacting you it's the same
thing on the phone they they're just
like ah nah we're all set because they
don't want to be sold to and they don't
like this is interrupted their day but
they did choose to answer the phone and
if you handle it in a respectful way
with empathy you can you can work
through those and you get to a place of
now they do understand what you're
saying and there is alignment or you've
tried your best
and there's no alignment and this does
it's not a good fit and that's okay too
and i would say in those scenarios make
sure you flag the contact is not a good
fit not the company because just because
one human being at a company says this
doesn't make sense doesn't mean that's
how everyone feels
yeah
yeah nice ad nice out especially for lag
or larger organizations where the
chances are you might speak to someone
different each time
um or like you say there's different
i've had had the same even when um kind
of doing sponsorship for the podcast it
could be that one person the company is
completely against it speak to someone
else in the marketing department they're
all for it so yeah my gosh that's great
so it's amazing how that can work cool
so that's
one of more marketing qualified leads
someone that's downloaded a piece of
content you call them up get in touch
with them i i think that link links
quite into the outbound but before we
get into the outbound in a bit more
structure
let's talk about perhaps someone that's
landed on your website or a landing page
they've clicked that big speak to sales
button all that big get in get in touch
and book a demo button filled out the
inquiry form
what are some some best practices around
speaking to these people that have
actually raised their hand and said they
want to speak to sales
yeah
speed is so so impressive to the
customer and i know so many
organizations that have like a 24-hour
response time to a demo request like
that's absurd so
number one i would highly suggest having
something like a chili piper or
something like that where they can just
book it and they don't have to wait for
someone to reach out like that's what i
look for i hate it when i have to wait
for someone to call me just to book a
meeting that would be my first bit of
advice have it have them be able to to
book it right there on the site
if they do not book and they request a
contact that probably means that they
have some questions
before they want to sit on a demo
and when we think about the buyer's
journey
and where they're at when they come into
a
hey i'd like a demo or hey i'd like some
more information
that means they're either in
consideration or evaluation phase most
likely so they're either currently they
they're problem aware and they're
currently like investigating how they
can even begin to go solve it or they're
problem aware and they've kind of
already decided on a route they want to
go solve it and there's a team assigned
to it and now they're just evaluating
vendors
and so they you know sometimes might
have some
um like
like a spreadsheet where they're
checking boxes like that's how it's
going to be if it's a larger
organization if it's smaller maybe not
but
so what we don't want to do is we don't
want to reach out to them and try to get
into that box ticking conversation right
there we want to get them into that into
that call where we can take them on that
journey and we can show them the value
there
so
what i would highly suggest doing is
have some stuff ready like some basic
questions so for example if you know
they're gonna ask um
hey i'm curious how you guys handle this
i'm sure every company will know the
kind of top two or three things that
people tend to ask about how your
product works in relation to something i
would have a canned response there that
doesn't get too deep into the weeds
talks more about the outcomes you can
drive with those things with simple like
yes we could do that folks are using
that to do xyz
so are you available on tuesday or
thursday next week like we just need
that that call is much simpler hey sam
it's ethan parker over at alti sales
giving you a call because you requested
a demo so i wanted to reach back out to
you really quickly here and and get that
set up for you are you available next
tuesday or thursday um
so if you do that within 5-10 minutes of
that lead coming in it's gonna be a very
high success rate so i think speed and
low amount of friction is possible for
the customers what you're shooting for
there
yeah yeah yeah it makes sense um and
i've experienced that as well right like
definitely agree with speed to lead it's
certainly helped us at webchoice in
terms of landing deals and being quick
to respond to inquiries it just goes
without saying right if you're leaving
if you've made an inquiry as a prospect
just think how you'd like to be treated
if you inquired at say 8 a.m and a
prospect didn't get back to you until
the next day i mean a vendor sorry
didn't get back to you to the next day
but then another venue inquired with got
back within five minutes who's leaving
the best first impression
um it's a no-brainer and
with that said
that's an interesting point you raised
ethan so i've because i handle a lot of
the leads that come in for our company
webchoice
quite a lot of the time
and i'm sure business owners marcus
tuning in have probably experienced this
is that the prospect might try and take
a handle of the conversation
so before you even have a chance to run
through kind of your qualifying
questions to see if this lead is a good
fit to take to the next step if that is
showing them a demo straight away if
that's showing me software give them a
slideshow whatever that step is
depending on the size of your product
and your sales process they might say
look i want to know kind of what the
size of your company is what your
pricing is what your time frames are
what availability you've got and then
before you know it they're reeling off
100 questions and you're just bombarded
with them and you're just being like a
robot saying yes we were formed in 1982
we have 100 members of staff and stuff
like that which is from my experience
one of the worst ways that a
a lead can go
um any
ways or best practice of youth on ethan
to going to turn the conversation around
not make the
lead feel like you're trying to run the
show
but you are
and flipping it around so you can kind
of grab a hold of a conversation and
make sure you you kind of take it to
where you where you need to to see if
this person is a good fit to do some
business
yeah there's a very useful discovery
tactic that you can use in this
situation
and i forget where i heard this so for
whoever's original ip this is i it's not
mine so wherever credit is due but it's
called uh tagging
right so if someone asks me if we get on
the phone with that prospect and you're
right we're gonna have that some
percentage of the time where they just
every time they ask a question what we
want to do in the way that we regain
control without it really feeling that
way is we do answer the question
but we just tag a question on the end of
it
that will
steer this conversation back where we
want so let's pretend again
um
just make up a random scenario hey yeah
well i'm curious about um you know if
you guys's feature integrates with
hubspot or blah blah blah whatever it
might be a question about that
so the answer to a question like that is
going to be
uh the short answer sam is yep we can
however you know i do just want to be
honest with you i am not the technical
expert
on our on our uh on our team and the
reason i was giving you a call is so i
can make sure and get you in touch with
the person that can like thoroughly
answer that question but but um yes is
the answer question for you sam
typically when folks ask that it's
because they're concerned about the
visibility in the blah blah blah blah
is that how you bring that up like we
are again we're demonstrating the acumen
and we're going to the thing behind the
question now they're answering our
questions when they answer it i'm going
to ask my next one and they're probably
going to use the tagging method because
they're not a seller and they're not
thinking about it so if you tag a
question and then of your answer it puts
you back in the seat of control without
it really feeling that way because you
did answer it
and i would suggest like your sales
people that are making these calls like
they don't they shouldn't be the product
expert and if it is you sam that you're
saying like i deal with a lot of these
fear you probably are the product expert
then it would become more about time so
like hey um that's a really loaded
question there sam the short answer is
yes but i do have a meeting coming up
here in two minutes so like i actually
don't have time to dive into that but
let's get something on the calendar i
can totally unpack that with you right
so i think they're just like when you're
on outbound and trying to create this
peer-to-peer environment it's the same
thing with inbound like we need we need
the client to understand that you know
i'm your peer and you know i'm not just
an order taker here
yeah yeah yeah what what would be um
in your opinion ethan what's the
main objective
because we said with the mql with that
say a semi-warm semi-cold content-driven
lead one of the main goals is to kind of
build build that curiosity actually see
if they're
interested in taking the next step
whether it is a demo or slideshow
whatever we want to kind of drive them
to what would you say is the main goal
when you're talking to a
real hot inbound lead that's someone
that's actually requested to speak to
sales in your thoughts
yeah i think the the main goal is to
provide an an outstanding experience
like in in the example that you gave if
i submit a demo and at 8 am and one
company takes 24 hours to get back to me
and one takes 10 minutes who's getting
off on the right foot faster
so i think that the
the prospect or customer experience is
like uber uber important and like really
what it boils down to unless you have
some really innovative thing but like if
it's outreach and sales loft someone
might say they picked outreach because
they have better analytics but why they
really picked outreach was because they
had a better experience the sales person
was faster getting back to them the
support was better whatever the case may
be and i'm not saying that it is so for
all you sales i'm a self-love user so
i'm not
not on either one but
it when it's when it's a similar thing
it comes down to the experience i think
that should be the ultimate goal is like
i need to i need to i need to have a
really great conversation build good
rapport and make sure this is a good fit
for us pick out some landmines that
typically come up get them aware i'm
planting the seeds so that the 9x
conversation will be very very
productive very relevant and very
focused on what they want to talk about
so i think it's like light discovery
really um is the is the primary goal and
the client experience is
you know that should be top of mind yeah
yeah yeah i like it we we had an
interesting conversation with a chap
called benjamin dennehy so we're at the
moment we're diving into kind of top
level overviews of
outbound leads inbound leads so if you
do want to get a more detailed
conversation around how to handle
inbound lead check out the business
growth show episode with benjamin
dennehy which was filmed and recorded
sometime last year that's worth your
time so let's transition to the final
section of the show
in terms of outbound we might have
touched on some of this with the with
the mqr leads but
let's to to wrap things up what should
be our initial thought process when
we're dealing with ice cold prospects
perhaps this is a list that marketing
generated perhaps we purchased it from a
third-party list vendor perhaps we
plucked them off linkedin sales
navigator or maybe we've just made a
list ourselves um what are some of the
the thoughts and
your recommendations there ethan
yeah number one
is everything that you do every email
that you send every call that you make
the goal is to start a conversation
um
from that conversation if the
conversation goes well then we can set
up a meeting where we can talk about
this a bit more
so that's the number one i'm a i don't
want to be like another mindset guy here
but like it is so much everything in
sales and how you go into a conversation
what beliefs you have and what your
agenda is are going to impact
how you say the things that you say and
how you're perceived like it's there's
90 percent of human communication is
non-verbal so like your intent going in
needs to be on point and the intent here
is to help
and to start a conversation that should
be your intent and if it is
you're going to start a conversation
and the framework is the exact same that
you use with the mql it's the exact same
no different i'm going to use permission
based opener i'm going to have a
value-based pitch around what
information we have that we can share
with you that will possibly help you in
your business and
i'm a fan of the priority drop method so
i'm going to list three things so like
hey sam most folks like you i talk to
are focused on one of three things right
now
each of those is going to be an
overarching category with specific
context behind it
and so to build on the scenario i gave i
might say most of epa marketings like
you i speak to are highly focused on one
of three things right now sam one is
demand gen so how can we get more of our
agents and brokers involved in our
digital local presence and driving more
leads so it's going to be tailored to
the specific industry and person i'm
talking to i'll list off two more and
i'll say hey curious which of these is
the focus for you right now if they say
none then
we're done
if they say
which if you've done your research
they're probably going to say all of
them or
give you one and we're going to go down
that same pattern oh great well
typically what i hear when folks are
looking at that they're typically doing
things like x and y
are you doing something like that you
have something more advanced going on
and then after we kind of ask them to
understanding where they're at in the
journey we're going to ask like a why
based question in the form of what so
you don't want to use the word why
except in certain
certain scenarios because it makes
people defensive and you really only
want them defensive when they're
defending the purchase of your product
so early in this stage we're going to
ask it in a what based way so
instead of hey why are you looking at
that it would be like hey curious sam
what's driving that to be an area of
focus right now
then we'll get to a little bit higher
thing well we need to we need to
increase our lead production by 40 in
2022 that's like the agenda hey got it
sam that's what i figured i just want to
make sure we're on the same page based
on what you're telling me here man i
think that we might be able to help you
with those legion goals 2022
my goal here wasn't take up too much of
your time today would you be open to
unpacking with me a bit more sometime
next week when i'm not like totally
calling you out of the blue so the frame
works the exact same we're going to
priority drop a couple how base
questions then a y in the form of a what
based and set the meeting
yep yep yep build up that curiosity
digging deep into into what they say as
well and unpacking that that makes sense
and
so it's yeah a similar process to what
we discussed on the marketing qualified
leads from your experience
and this this is a tricky one
a lot of companies will invest quite
heavily depending on the size them into
building these mqls they might put on
10k 20k 30k plus webinars they might
create
tons of content ebooks videos podcasts
guides get loads of downloads and then
um
drive all these marketing qualified
leads and then hand it off to sales
or you could just build your own lists
or pay a company to build your list and
start calling those and kind of segment
those into prospects you feel a good
match depending what you're targeting
industry
job title the list goes on
should you not just build lists would it
not be cheaper or is do do mqls from
your experience tend to convert better
to meeting or
what have you seen
marginally
um marginally better i i wouldn't say
that it's
it's uh tremendously and i i am just for
the record i'm a hardcore outbound guy
so most of my experiences in that world
so take for what it's worth but in my
experience
you know a really
well functioning sdr
for an enterprise meaning 100k plus deal
size outbound meaning i have no clue who
you were before i picked up the phone
um
can average around eight to 12 meetings
completed held per month if they're
doing well
industry averages three held per sdr in
that same scenario so
you know we can we've seen teams doing
eight to twelve
and that might your mql
it might be like 12 to 15.
so it it typically isn't
that much better with the exceptions of
um depending on the content man like the
contents everything if you have some
really freaking fire content like i do
think brand everything so i think
there's value here that beyond just
direct meetings that does come into play
like if you say nike whether you i don't
i don't particularly love nike shoes um
but i haven't just checking if you had
someone then
you know i know that name everyone knows
that name because they do really great
marketing right and they've they're a
giant but there's there's a lot of
places like that too like gong you think
call recording you think gong
immediately you don't have to think
about it but there's tons of them to do
it course is another big one but you
don't ever think course you think gong
so i think that there is value to
really great content marketing beyond
just meetings booked but to answer your
question i have not seen that big of a
lift on average from cold outbound done
properly
and mqls
interesting yeah i just wanted to stir
up some marketers really with that
statement so that was the that was the
thought behind it but no i can i agree
obviously demand gen has its place um
especially if you're a larger scale
corporation if you're putting out
quality content that's going to educate
your prospects over time you're going to
build that that trust that brand
affinity so it's only going to help and
complement it is better than shitty
outbound to be clear like if it's very
poor outcome strategy yes you will have
much better conversions on mqls but this
is assuming your outbound strategy is
very good very tight and you have good
sdrs
then
you know i i think it's a marginal lift
but everything everything counts in this
space
yep just just another controversial one
um who's got a harder job the the sales
team that deal with inbound leads or the
ones that are doing cold prospecting
oh 100 the ones that are doing cold
prospecting
and
can uh this might help business owners
can a um
can a sales rep be qualified at both
outbound and inbound or is it a specific
skill set for one or the other
no i don't so i think if you master
outbound you'll crush inbound period um
if you master inbound and that is your
focus and you try to shift an outbound
do the same things you will fail
miserably so
it's transferable outbound to inbound
but it is not inbound to outbound that's
like the number one problem that i deal
with with our customers is like
discovery call for example their aes are
like oh these are our best aes but
they're their best aes in an inbound
motion and then they get on a call
with an outbound prospect and they're
like banting them in the first five
minutes and i'm like what are you doing
dude they're here because we said we're
going to show them some insight like
this isn't going to work and they're
wondering why they don't convert to pipe
so um if you master outbound very
transferable to inbound there's a little
bit of a a little bit of a shift like
they're further along on the buyer's
journey but it's it's all very useful
things so i do think a rep can do both
but they have to be
it does have to be a rep that's okay
with contact switching like and i would
suggest i would suggest like batching
that out so focus on outbound activities
then focus on inbound activities or vice
versa i wouldn't like contact switch
every other lead if you're making 100
dials i would focus on 50 outbound than
shift gears 50 inbound
like it like it good way to end ethan
really enjoyed the conversation sir
thanks very much for coming on
please do
share more about how people can learn
from you get in touch with you and
connect with yourself sir
yeah um the best place to connect with
me is linkedin um i do i try to put out
a decent amount of content and i also
have a podcast you can check that out so
it's the revenue podcast um it's on
apple and
spotify and all the things so check that
out it's if it's uh it's interesting and
then if you are if you're a sales
development
leader and you're not hitting the
numbers you would like and you want to
chat about it i'm always down for a
conversation around that too so
nice one dude thanks once again
yeah thank you sam no worries and as
always we'll put all of those links for
ethan's linkedin and site over at the
website businessgrowth.marketing
and with that thanks very much for
tuning in as always if you enjoy the
show a quick rating on your podcast
channel is appreciated or subscribe on
youtube and for more no bs actionable
marketing and sales tips we'll catch you
on the next one cheers
cheers